.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt CELL 9l
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm cell ,
.Nm NIL ,
.Nm LFALSE ,
.Nm LTRUE ,
.Nm VOID ,
.Nm LEOF ,
.Nm UNDEFINED ,
.Nm FIXED
.Nd cells values
.Sh INTRODUCTION
A
.Vt cell
is an integer
.Vt ( intptr_t )
large enough to fit a pointer
.Vt ( Oatom * ) .
Elsewhere in the heap every atom has an associated
.Vt Otag
identifying which type of object the atom represents.
.Pp
Owing to the size of an
.Vt Oatom
object of two full addresses the numeric value of a pointer which will
be saved in a
.Vt cell
is a multiple of this size \(em 4, 8 or 16 if addresses are 16, 32 or 64
bits wide respectively. In particular the address will always be
.Em even .
.Pp
Taking advantage of this fact the following special
.Vt cell
values are defined.
.Pp
.Bl -column "UNDEFINED" "-value-" -compact -offset indent
.It Em Symbol Ta Em Value Ta Em Description
.It Dv NIL       Ta \ 0 (0000) Ta () \(em the empty list
.It Dv LFALSE    Ta \ 1 (0001) Ta (#f/#F) \(em false
.It Dv LTRUE     Ta \ 3 (0011) Ta (#t/#T) \(em true
.It Dv VOID      Ta \ 5 (0101) Ta no representation \(em
.Dq returned
by procedures; can be stored but not used
.It Dv LEOF      Ta \ 7 (0111) Ta no representation \(em read after end or close
.It -            Ta \ 9 (1001) Ta unused
.It -            Ta 11  (1011) Ta unused
.It Dv UNDEFINED Ta 13  (1101) Ta never seen \(em returned when a symbol
is not bound in an environment
.It Dv FIXED     Ta 15  (1111) Ta the upper 32/24/8 (depending on machine
size) bits represent a fixed-size integer
.El
.Pp
Predicates test for the presence of one of these in a
.Vt cell .
.Bl -column "UNDEFINED" "predicate_p" "(predicate?)" -compact -offset indent
.It Em Special Ta Em C predicate Ta Em Lossless
.It Dv NIL Ta Fn null_p "O" Ta ( Ot null? O )
.It Dv LFALSE Ta Fn false_p "O" Ta ( Ot false? O )
.It Dv LTRUE Ta Fn true_p "O" Ta ( Ot true? O )
.It Either Dv LFALSE or Dv LTRUE Ta Fn boolean_p "O" Ta ( Ot boolean? O )
.It Dv LVOID Ta Fn void_p "O" Ta ( Ot void? O )
.It Dv LEOF Ta Fn eof_p "O" Ta ( Ot eof? O )
.It Dv FIXED Ta Fn fixed_p "O" Ta -
.It Dv UNDEFINED Ta Fn undefined_p "O" Ta -
.It Dv Any of the above Ta Fn special_p "O" Ta -
.It Anything except Dv UNDEFINED Ta Fn defined_p "O" Ta -
.El
